
before starting this session . i need to know that 

do you know css..?
pseudo class and elements..?
floating and clearfix..?
5 types of positions..?
display - diff b/w block, inline and inline-block..?

if you know all these things then we will move to 
create webpage.






Introduction of css

Css is a cascading style sheet is not a language like html or js or like any other language
its a mechaism that's design our website or web document.

for example -

if your want to alter the font, color ,size, spacing here you use css.and you can also split
your content into multiple columns, or add animations and other decoration can apply with this
css.

let see how css makes our website beautiful.

let's open any website and then remove their css then we will see how our website looks
without css.





now the Question is how can we apply all these designing or decoration

Now in the css we have selectors and properrties through which we can apply these designing on 

our html element.




Now what is selectors.?

Selctors is the part of a css rule that describe waht elements in the documents the rule will 

match. in easy words selector seelct our document elements through their tag name and by id , 

class or by any attribute and apply properties on that element.

we have many types of css selectors like:

universal selector: universal selector define with * whatever property define inside the 
universal selector it will apply on all the element in our structure.
type: in type selector we can select element by its name.
id: we can select any element by giving id. it must be unique in our whole html structure. 
class: we can select any element by giving class attribute or ist value any name, we can add
multple class inside class attribute value" but no in case of id.
attribute selector: The CSS attribute selector matches elements based on the presence or value 

of a given attribute.






the position property in css defines position of our elements,that how the element is 

positioned  on the web page.

we have five types of position here in Css3


-position relative
-position absolute
-position sticky
-position static
-positoin fixed



first is static: by default our element position value is static mean,all the elements are in 

order as they appear in the document. we can also mention in the position property but we don't 

need this.

next is Fixed: by postion fixed it will take position according to browser's window. and also 

attached with our browsers window  
you can manage its position by pair of these properties top and left or right or bottom and 

left or right.


so next is absolute:This type of positioning allows you to place your element precisely where 

you want it. position absolute work with position relative, whenever you define position 

absolute then it will search the position relative attribute in our parent element. and it will 

take position according to parent element if there is no position relative in our parent 

element then it will find in grand parent element and so on till it find the position relative 

in our parent's element if it doesn't find any parent element having position as relative then 

its going to take the browser's window as its relative parents. and this thing will again start 

workig just like fixed property was working  

An important thing to keep in mind while using absolute positioning is to make sure it is not 

overused, otherwise it will difficult to manage.

if you are using position relative alone in any element nothing will heppen.

so next is position sticky: the  element is positioned related to the user scroll position. 

the sticky element maintains its  position only within its containing block.
the value  sticky in the the position property tells  the sticky div to 	 stick within 

the box div, we also define where we want to stick our element by top , bottom ,righ and left 

properties.





now next we will see pesudo-elements

there are some pseudo elements

-after
-before
-first-letter
-first-line
-placeholder



now what is pesudo-elements : pesudo means fake .in css we also have some readymate elements. 
we just need to use these elements.

pesudo-elements are the keyword added to a selector that lets you style a specific part of the 
selected element(s). 


For example, ::first-line presudo-elements can be used to change the font of the first line of 
a paragraph. 

::first-letter CSS pseudo-element applies styles to the first letter of the first line of a 
block-level element

next is ::placeholder CSS pseudo-element represents the placeholder text in an <input> or 
<textarea> element.

next is after pseudo-element: that is the last child of selected element. its create a fake 
child .we may used to add any icon after element like dropdown icon ,like any content or text . 
and it is also inline element.

as same we have ::before pseudo-element .the difference is it will be the first child element 

in the selected element.



now next is floating and clearfix: 

in previous html we used to maintain our content column wise by using
floating or clearfix:

Now what floating do: 
floating is used to float our element little upside of the web page
.now our element is floating and rest of the element take place where
our this element was placed. 

when float property is none: it will take place on our web page.
when you change it to left: then it float on little bit upside of 
webpage and it will placed left side   

when you change it to right: then it float or placed right side.

now our element is floting or the rest content of website will take
place where our floating element was placed. and these content 
place around the floating element remaining part. 

we are using this for align our content side by side 

if i want that our website contenet don't take place around floting
element .we need to add clear property.

if i want that atteched webpage content don't take space to rest of free right side space of 
left floating element.
then we will add clear left;

as same for right side element we will use clear right;

and if i want for both element then we change it to clear both;


we can also use this float or clear fix with class selector

we just need to write 

.left{
	float:left;
}

and then if  i place this class inside any element then the float property will apply.

we can do same for right floating
.right{
	float: right;	
}

and whereever we want to apply this property we just neeed to place this class inside the element.
and for clear both we also can create a class
and if we want this clear propety after to the particular target element we can add pseudo 
element with this class.

.clearfix :: after{
	content:" ";
	display: block;
	clear: both;
} 
 

css3 replace this floating and clearfix with display flex .display flex do all these things .we 
just need to apply this property on parent div and the child elements will automatically 
seperate as a column.we also need to define width of all column.


now we are ready to create a web page.
today we create a flipkart replication.


 


  
